---
layout: post
title: "Image backup"
category: 
tags: []
---
My current solution to backup all of my photos:

* every images are on my local NAS (well, actually it's not a real NAS, just an atom based home server with linux and a RAID1 array)

* The images are uploaded to my flickr pro account with a script mirroring my folder structures with creating flickr collections and sets.

To upload an image:

1. From my phone: I can upload my photo folder to my home server with the [android rsync app](https://market.android.com/details?id=eu.kowalczuk.rsync4android) 

2. a simple bash script will move the images to the final folder structure (ROOT/year/month) using exiv2 to parse the exif data.

3. An other script can sync the folder structures to flickr (It can create new sets per dir and upload the photos to the new sets). I used an [own python based script](https://github.com/elek/puploadr) what I wrote just to practice in python, but currently I have an improved version in Java.

4. Unfortunately I have no [wifi enabled CF card](http://fr.eye.fi/), so I can't upload these images automatically. But I have a simple shell script on my memory card to save everything to my home server after mounting the card.

TODO:

1. Android rsync can't do scheduled uploads.

2. The java uploader script should be improved a little bit (and published after some cleanup)

3. Use inotify instead of cron jobs.

+1: I definitely need some extensible backup framework. I would backup some of the folders to flickr, others to dropbox or box.net others to Amazon EC2 or my other server. There should be some clean interfaces to sync folders and implementations for some of these providers.


